

Novelette expects six (6) pages of frontmatter.
That is all you need for popular fiction. If you are writing a book that
needs more frontmatter, maybe Novelette is not for you.


FRONTMATTER

Front matter (frontmatter) identifies your book. It always includes
the title page (recto), and the copyright page (verso, flip side of title).

Modern frontmatter has at least 6 pages. Their page numbers are lowercase
roman numerals, but (in most cases) are not printed:
	i.   Half-Title Page.
	ii.  Frontispiece.
	iii. Title Page.
	iv.  Copyright Page.
	v.   Visual Separator.
	vi.  End Frontmatter.


The Half-Title has only the book title (not author), and possibly subtitle.
	This is a custom, dating back to the era when books were printed without
binding. The Half-Title protected the actual title page.
	The print should be similar to what you use for the actual title page,
but smaller.


The Frontispiece is almost always blank.
	High-end books might show decorative line art, related to the theme
of the book (but not an essential part of the story).
	If your story is set in a non-fictional location (such as Victorian London),
you might put a map of it here. Maybe. Such a map is not "essential" to the
story, because the information could be obtained from other sources.
	In principle, you should not put a fictional map here, or diagram of
the crime scene, or other information that is properly part of the story.
In practice, fiction books sometimes cheat, and put it here.
	Contemporary mass-market books often have an advertisement for
other books, or even movies.
	A work of non-fiction might (rarely) have a short "About the Author" here.
But that is a bad idea, for fiction (if you insist, put it after the ending).
	Some books show a list of books by the same author. But print-on-demand
services will usually refuse a list of books, because they do not necessarily
provide all of them. Also, anyone seeking books by you, can use the Internet.
	Repeat: The frontispiece is almost always blank.


The Title Page contains the book title, subtitle (if any), author,
and usually the publisher name and general location.
	The title, subtitle, and author text are usually styled. Sometimes,
the style is similar to what you use for the book cover.
	Professional publishers place a line containing their corporate name,
logo, and city/nation where they are located, at the bottom of the title page.
With a self-published work, YOU are the publisher, not the print-on-demand
service or Internet distributor. Unless you are in a jurisdiction that
requires a publisher's line on the title page, you do not need one.
The creator of Novelette likes to put this, for his own books:
	Independently Published (my own logo) MyCity, MyNation


The Copyright Page has several specific requirements.
	The page must show the title, subtitle (if any), and author.
	If you are using a pseudonym, the author should be whatever name
will be indexed in the book database (probably the pseudonym).
	The page must bear a copyright notice, with name and year of publication.
Use the real copyright symbol, NOT (c):
	Copyright ©2023 Myron Dorf. All Rights Reserved.
Nowadays, at least in the USA, "All Rights Reserved" appears to be the minimal
catch-all warning against cheaters. You might add further imprecations.
	If you use a pseudonym, it is probably best to use your real name (rather
than the pseudonym) in the copyright. That way, if you need to enforce it,
you will not need to prove that the pseudo-author "Joe Fakename" is actually
"Really You".
	You must identify the publisher (for self-published books, YOU) and
provide some kind of contact information. Professional publishers provide
the corporate name and address. Self-publishers might be reluctant to provide
their home address. The amount of detail may depend on requirements of your
jurisdiction. Keep in mind that law enforcement can easily learn who you are,
and where you are, by probing the book distribution database. The Novelette
creator has used this:
	Independently Published by the Copyright Holder, MyCity, MyNation.
If you have a web site specific to your book(s), you may show its URL.
	Most nations require an "Impressum" stating the name and location of the
printer (not necessarily the publisher). With print-on-demand, each copy
of the book may be printed by different businesses, in different locations
(even different nations). So, you cannot fix that information on the
copyright page. In most cases, the printer will add that information
to the final otherwise-blank verso page. That's why the final verso must
be blank. If in doubt, ask the service that accepts your book.
	Your book must have an ISBN, which uniquely identifies it in the book
distribution database. Exception: Some print-on-demand books will not
be available to the public, but are printed in small quantity and sold only
to the author. Family histories are often in this category.
	Your book does not require library catalog information. Nowadays,
if a library needs catalog information, it can quickly download it from the
Internet, rather than manually type it by reading your copyright page.
So, even professional publishers will often say "Library catalog information
available on request at (URL)." In the USA, libraries do not sort popular
fiction by catalog information; they sort it by genre (sci-fi, mystery, etc.)
and author surname.
	The copyright page must bear a notice of fiction, which is typically
in the form, "This is a work of fiction. Any resemblance... etc."
	It is a bad idea to mention brand-name products or services in your story.
If you do, then the copyright page may need to have a notice such as
"FurbleWax® is a registered trademark of Furble Corporation."
On a related note: Don't even think of using real brand names as a means
of improving your book sales.

The Visual Separator is just that: It prevents the legalese language of
the Copyright Page from appearing on the same page spread as the first page
of your story. Do not leave this page blank.
	The simplest visual separator is a repeat of the half-title. If in doubt,
do that.
	Another possibility is a Dedication. These are over-used. Your book does
not need one. It is a custom dating back to the era when poor authors would
dedicate their books to rich people, in hopes of getting a subsidy. And,
if you are George and you dedicate the book to Ethel, then you will
never hear then end of it when you later marry Melinda. If necessary,
mention Ethel on a web page, which can be edited.
	You may use a short Author's Note. If you do, it should be something
that leads into the story, rather than detracts from it. So, this is not the
place to tell readers that you wrote the book while recovering from addiction. 
One well-known American writer likes to mention that some event mentioned
in the story, which seems to be preposterous, actually occurred.
	You may write a short Acknowledgement, if appropriate. Be sure that it
does not detract from the following story.
	If your book is part of a series, then you might provide a quick summary
of the situation at the end of the previous book. But beware: Some services
will not accept books in a series.
	A good possibility is an Epigraph. This is a very short piece of prose
or verse, intended to set the theme for the story. It may be a quotation
(real or imaginary). If a real quotation, be sure that is is not the
copyrighted material of someone else. Quotations from Shakespeare and the
King James Bible are often used, because they are (a) impressive, and
(b) not under copyright. But a modern translation of the Bible is likely to
be under copyright! So beware. Professional authors often use quotations
from other modern works, because their same publisher makes the internal
business arrangements. You cannot do that.
	Memorable Epigraph: "One Ring to Rule Them All..." from Lord of the Rings.


The End of Frontmatter is almost always a blank page. So, when the story
is opened to its start (Prologue, or Chapter 1), there is nothing to distract
the reader from the text.
	In rare cases, you may put an image here, such as a map, or diagram of
the crime scene. Only do this if there is no better place to put it, later in
the story. Strictly speaking, nothing important to the story should appear
in frontmatter. But works of popular fiction may ignore that rule.


EXTENDED FRONTMATTER

	Non-fiction books often have frontmatter that explains how the
book was written, and why. They may have a section written by some expert
or well-known author, to lend credibility to this book's author.
	Reprints of older, famous books may have extended frontmatter, which
tells the life and times of the author, or provides critical analysis.
	Contemporary popular fiction almost never has extended frontmatter.
If it is one of those "instant best-seller" books written by a famous author,
the publisher may place irrelevant material (advertisements, etc.) here,
because the book will still be purchased.
	Alas, you are not famous, and your print-on-demand fiction will not be
an "instant best-seller". So, avoid extended frontmatter.
	There is also a conflict: Standard book style requires that extended
frontmatter (such as a Preface, written by someone else) NOT have the
book title and author in page headings, because that material is
not part of the story. But print-on-demand services generally require that
page headings (when used) must be uniform throughout the book.

