
TITLE AND AUTHOR

Title and Author are required in final mode. You may provide them in
other modes, but if you do not provide them, Novelette will use defaults.
If Novelette sees that the document is using the default "Untitled Document"
or "Anonymous Author", then it will not permit final mode.

Print-on-demand services require that the title and author exactly match,
wherever they are used. So if you use an abbreviation in one place,
you must do it everywhere. There may be exceptions, such as allowing
an author named "Gloriferous Hornithology McBrindlethorpe" to be written
as "G. H. McBrindlethorpe" in page headings. But to be sure, ask the
print service. 

Be sure that the Title and Author are written in Latin alphanumeric characters,
usually limited to Latin-1. Space, comma, and straight apostrophe
are acceptable. Thus "Shout, They Cried" by "Patrick O'Toole" makes sense.
But "Shout!" by "Patrick (The Man) O'Toole" is likely to be rejected.
This has to do with the way books are indexed in the distribution database,
for ease of search.

Note that curly quotes (whether single or double) are not in Latin-1, or any
Latin character set. If Novelette sees that you wrote Title or Author with
curly quotes, then it will automatically substitute the straight characters.

A small number of symbolic characters might (or might not) be acceptable.
The ampersand &,  the percent %, and the numbersign # might work.
Again, the print service has its rules. If you use any of these, you must
precede the symbol with backslash in the \title and \author settings.
Thus: \title{The 4\% Conspiracy \& \#5 Solution}. But you may be required
to spell them out. You may even be required to spell numerals.

Your book may have a subtitle, but this is not required. It is more
fashionable for non-fiction books, where the subtitle is lengthy, and
describes the content of the book: \title{New Zealand} \subtitle{The history
and geography of the nation, its people, and its sheep, as seen through
the eyes of a French tourist}. Don't do that for fiction.

If your book does have a subtitle, it will appear in the book distribution
database. It must be printed on the book cover, title page, and
copyright page. But it does not need to appear in page headings.
PDF metadata does not have a separate entry for subtitle.

On the book cover and title page (but not half-title page), you would
probably design the title in large/decorative type, and the subtitle in
less-conspicuous type.

On the copyright page, there is a general format, like this:
	title : subtitle / author
Example:
	The Wacky Crow : A Birdland Fantasy / Wanda Writestuff
The above may occupy more than one line, but do not hyphenate.

 
